hey everybody welcome back I can't do
the dang old daily challenge I already
did it
welcome back to northernlion plays The
Binding of Isaac and rebirth where we've
been playing dare I say slightly better
at least our results have been better
d4q 6 2 3 C e now I don't want to get my
hopes up yet I also don't want to fall
asleep cause I'd miss you baby and I do
not want to miss a thing I especially do
not want to miss an opportunity to not
take damage Cuba meet first floor you
know what if there's anything positive
to say about 0.87 speed it's that it's a
little easier to aim your Cuba me when
you're not zipping around like crazy so
glowing hourglass you only get a few
plays of it before it becomes not
glowing hourglass admittedly like it
just becomes the regular hourglass we
should stick with it because I mean the
beam is not that good I would get rid of
it for weight what probably but the big
play with glowing hourglass is to reroll
payouts that we don't actually like so I
mean we could go for nine lives here you
know what look at that we effectively
just turned two tiers down into a tiers
well we turn it into nada tiers down at
least so we avoided at tiers downgrade
as a result of that and now we don't
need to take that pill anymore we could
hold it until we get PhD but why bother
that's a smart play you might have good
fought a little bit when I said that
I've been playing better lately but
recall you know these episodes don't
necessarily come out in the order
they're recorded because of dailies you
know the one daily per day usually set
up means that my track record is
slightly off centered from your track
record you know recollection perhaps
right now so I have been starting to
rebuild my confidence to a small degree
but honestly it might take months before
even if things start to become normal
now it might take months before I truly
feel as if I'm at a home in Isaac again
after the the events of mid-may 2017
where I feel like I'm getting my butt
kicked me shouldn't
like this run is a you know guaranteed
win certainly not as of right now we
have no basis to think that thought
maybe that would get the pots up there
can we use this to re-roll will
effectively re-roll boss items I can't
recall because when we fought super lust
again or ultra lust it just gave us the
exact same item well gave us the exact
same pill in this case it wasn't that it
gave us another pill it gave us the
exact same pill so I don't think we can
use this to fight the boss and get
something different
although I would like to try but we
could use it to take back something that
we shouldn't have done I'm going to head
down to the next floor for now we'll use
our world card hopefully we have a
chance at an arcade we have the money
necessary sorry the HP necessary to at
least play it a little bit although we
are going to you know what check this
out yeah we want this but what I was
going to say is we could use the glowing
hourglass this is something I had never
considered but we could use the glowing
hourglass to be like you know what let's
go back to that third item in our reroll
rotation I've never considered doing
that okay that was pretty bad you know
what I don't need to do this room I know
we're not using it for like enormous
plays right now but we're at least
getting some value out of the glowing
hourglass which is more than I
previously gotten a lot of the time I
suppose we could also go into the curse
room and then if the curse room's not
worthwhile we could just you know go
back in time and at the end of this all
we get the hourglass which is not really
incredible but not necessarily bad
either
seaton - Drock no tinted rock no tinted
rock let's do it save ourselves a spear
at our potentially ah it is worth it
though
now is it spirit arts are the keys and
bombs on this floor
I think it's keys and bombs so we should
really save it to try to get something
better on the caves one but I'm just
going to use it and stick with glowing
our glass for now and I'll admit this is
mostly like out of novelty because we
don't use the glowing our glass that
often I think it's a neat item I'd like
to get a little bit more of a chance to
try it out here I guess we could all
look like imagine I'm just running these
things through my head right now because
I'd rarely get a chance to actually see
this item and usually what I see it
especially if it's not a daily I will
just immediately be like oh no I'm not
touching that today so this is my
sandbox where I get to play around
before I eventually take it to like a
top 1,500 finish on a daily which is not
that amazing but trying to think what if
we get hit on a deal with the devil
glowing our glass back out of the room
then go back into the room beat the boss
without getting hits we will qualify for
a deal with the devil I think so we
could use it as kind of like you know a
time machine I suppose in that regard as
well maybe that's what it's supposed to
maybe that's what it's a reference to I
don't know what the glowing hourglass is
maybe that's what you know they use an
HD wealth of Time Machine I got no clue
I didn't see the guy Pierce movie my
favorite guy Pierce movie as we've
established his uh prometheus okay pin
kind of would like to use a bomb to end
you that was not good this will be good
he's done it uh let's check absolutely
worth it just don't die right now okay
all is forgiven a little bit of a scary
situation there we pulled it back now
now we know we don't care about being in
our uh our boss trap room there is old
NL back I hope so dude I didn't know I'd
miss them this much this is going to be
our secret room which leads to the shop
as well give me the quarter
no quarter man that's just not that good
uh we're going to open the golden chest
and probably save our bomb to try to
find a tinted rock later because we are
a little low well if you get money we
might look for a secret room in our shop
and buy secret room in our shop I mean
spirit heart in our shop we're still a
little bit you know lacking in a couple
of different ways here mostly HP but our
speed is not particularly strong we have
no trinket I mean we had batwing for a
second but then we got rid of it with
glowing our glass with the wafer which
is very nice I think we should try to
get a spirit heart out of our shop as is
right now so I'm going to like if three
of these payout or one of them pays out
with a nickel even better but come on
cap I think I will blow up our donation
machine to get a spear and hard to keep
ourselves alive if we have to and
there's no spirit heart but I'm still
gonna try because we could kind of get
two birds stoned at once there I mean
maybe we could just shoot until we get
enough money I don't know that's how
this works if it only you know triggers
pennies if it shoots the enemies because
otherwise you're going to use it for
infinite HP even five cents wouldn't be
enough because we need to get the reroll
as well but anyway we're heading
downwards we're in a good spot you know
we got a great deal as a devil item it
we basically paid half price for it
which is lovely but we really want to do
that now is a good floor to pop this and
you know expedite the process of going
to the rooms that we want to go to and
skipping the rooms that are unlikely to
provide us with anything that advances
our interests as we are still at roughly
base stats I mean the wafers as good as
it is it doesn't really become as good
as it can be until later in the run
I'll be the first to tell you being able
to fly and having an orbital to go along
with it you know it's one of the best
upgrades you can conceivably have in the
whole game all we have to do is use it
properly you know choose our battles we
got five cents now so if we get to the
spirit art there's a pretty decent
chance or if it gets the shot there's a
pretty decent chance there's a spirit
heart in there did take some damage I
know what you're thinking and I'm
thinking it too yeah you know what let's
go back we've still got the glowing
hourglass I guess it's five plays not
three normally that would seem like a
pretty weak glowing hourglass play I
think but I'm concerned about my
survival so I think this was a smart
idea but dude the top notch glowing
hourglass play so far one trillion
percent using it to make sure we didn't
get that tears downgrade that could have
resulted in us already being dead to be
honest with you that was very very close
sixteen rate of fire is just god-awful
thirteen is still really bad especially
with three point five damage and that's
being very very slightly generous so now
we can actually skip that room that
could be annoying for us not annoying in
most cases but with poor damage
admittedly you know pretty nasty
potentially so just go down there we
have the shovel nail we don't really
want to use it but it does exist should
we find a good cause for for action
there okay any time you can use an
orbital tool and a kill shot on those
portals you're in a good spot we're
going to go to the shop first
it's the right order of operations for
this floors bed mass boss every room
then you go to the shop man did I forget
the item room also secret rooms bed mass
hmm actually is head mass it was written
by Julius Caesar that they're called
parentheticals not brackets so as a
linguist I'd look I'm gonna stop you
right there
I've already slandered you and roasted
you so hard in this characterization you
can't possibly hold this belief anymore
it'd be too harmful for your social
image so as a result just accept you got
got son is bed mass it's not bad mass or
pet mass it's both you know it's
whatever you freaking learn you think
would they learn trigonometry in like
you know Tripoli Libya they go Oh
sohcahtoa I know maybe they do actually
math is a universal language none of
those words are in English to begin with
and they probably speak as good in
English as I do but so this time
circumstances have changed we don't need
to sacrifice a charge of blowing our
glass to get half a spear on our back
because the run is actually in a much
better spot now because we have an extra
one-half of one spirit art to work off
of still very delicate situation and I
mean you know sticky bombs best thing
I'll say about sticky bombs right now is
that we can use these bombs against the
boss we're really looking I mean on
glamorous but the truth we're looking to
stack up HP so first start with the bomb
right there six cents
there should be no donation machine
because we have a reroll machine instead
what in the world is that car battery
nipples so we will definitely get I love
charge items most of the time if it's
garbage maybe we can glowing our glass
out of it but I'll probably try to give
it a try regardless just for novelties
sake range upgrade huh hmm this run is
getting a little dicey again it's up to
us to hold it together here
we got bombs this could be a secret room
it is not an eternal heart okay jumper
cables bloody recharge you know what
it's the kind of run where you go jumper
cables
Isaac grants an active item charge for
every 15 enemies killed cool idea we
have bad damage and a space bar item
that doesn't necessarily synergize very
well with this that doesn't mean it's a
poor decision however it's not going to
if it's going to be useful for us is
probably not going to be useful yet so
we're in kind of a weird situation here
I would boss rush just say goodbye to it
at this point the run is actually fine
it has the seeds of a win embedded deep
within it somewhere I'm just trying to
get the 5 cents so I can buy another
spirit heart I don't really want to do
that room up there because I know it's
nasty and if we get like oh I mean a
Book of Revelations and decent damage
probably is like the keys you know that
to the kingdom if you will
I'm okay losing half a sphere at hard to
keep a glowing hourglass charge we got
the five cents basically by doing that
we spent five cents on half a spear at
heart is that a good deal probably not
but you know beggars can't be choosers
right now also our only considerable
source of dealing damage is sadly our
orbitals so we have to basically
continue to use that so things are going
to start to get a little dangerous here
and I think it's gonna be a long long
time till damage upgrades manifest I'd
really like to get a better run oh no
because I'm a salty man
[Music]
salty man blaming all his problems on
the game I'm just gonna go I thought
about using glowing hourglass there you
know we got a charge or two left a
little light on speed still - huh now
give me the William Shatner version of
uh of salty man she cheese my run last
night pre mom fights 20 minutes two p.m.
and I'm gonna die on my run by then and
then it would be and I think it's gonna
be in a long long time till I get a
double-digit streak inside and I've got
my Isaac skills come back to me oh no
I'm the salty man in something like that
I don't know it's good it's not a
horrible it's got potential this is some
fine tuning for sure oh there we go so
go to hook
we don't need batwing at all so go to
hook is actually functional speed
tarball by the way like just do not care
about we're running this whole run until
we get something we care about
sing it with me ant it's gonna be a long
long MOOC until we finally break golden
coupe that's enough that's enough of
that 14 seconds it's a great fight when
the greed hits your eyes like a big item
currency that's a grief fight I'm going
to be like 27 cents
money equals power just throwing it out
there wouldn't kick it out of bed for
eating crackers pretty solid situation
HP from the boss fight plus a deal with
the devil that somehow improves our DPS
wouldn't kick it outta the Chesterfield
for eating Cheetos brimstone mom's knife
wasn't thrown out of an airplane for
suckin on an Altoid mom's panties would
remove them from the premises for
rattling off some Pringles
that should've hurt I should have eaten
crap here you know what we're actually
getting pretty lucky on these dodges
tell you what you don't even need to
give me damage upgrades give me the
relic and BFF and I'll make this run
work I'm feeling good right now but you
gotta you got to hook me up soon cuz
we're running out of running out of time
on this one I just want you to know
things again a little dangerous slowed
way down that's usually a bad sign one
black heart is like all the fuel I need
for this floor but I didn't even how
though I didn't even break the I didn't
finish the room but you spawned uh you
spawned a jerk to hurt me this it was it
just to see if I still feel I'm using
like all my bombs here by the way
as far as I'm concerned that's resources
well-spent
all I ask don't don't get too close
there you go
it's only going to take like another
five or six shots to kill them hopefully
five or six hundred shots here we go no
deal with the devil
approaching absurdity we're on the
depths one with no map but we can fly
and that's worth something we got a lot
of money that's very useful for our
upcoming shop which I don't even nam
hope and it gives us a red candle or
something we're in like a dicey spot to
be honest with you and I think I've
actually and I you know I'll be the
first to tell you being a little bit
over aggressive my orbitals try the seed
and don't put yourself in the same boat
and see how you feel about things you
might not be that stoked to be honestly
that was it's almost worth it but I ran
into the curse room to gate myself off
from the chance to go back in time I
want to save I'll use the glowing
hourglass charge if it becomes strictly
necessary like we're obviously going to
die but okay you know what you got to
slow your roll a little bit I hate to
admit it
I finally understand why everybody hates
the spawners this is it this is the tilt
so it's up to us to fight the tilt
we still got HP thank God we picked up
so much at the end of the last floor
we're not going to succeed just by
virtue of the fact of big pinging
enemies from 500 yards away I still
stand by the orbital usage do it guppies
head pills retro vision paralysis okay
no run can be this bad for this long and
I say this not even as like a
exaggeration we have base stats and base
stats that are not even particularly
good on the depths one we're using our
orbital to deal all our damage and I'm
going to get railed on in the comments
for using the orbital to deal damage
instead we should sacrifice our youth to
this run shoot every enemy 1500 times
until they die all because they haven't
given me a damage upgrade what we could
have the one axis that I see for like
getting damage more quickly on this run
if something I dare not even mention
because the words are ashes leaving my
mouth we could have not taken the wafer
from the item room and then we rolled it
and maybe nested somewhere deep within
you know the pillars of uncertainty that
that room is we could have gotten a
damage upgrade of some sort who needs a
damage upgrade though when you got a
single cube of meat at one point zero to
speed I mean I just telling you that's
everything the body needs to have a very
successful run to about the caves too
but it's up to us to not get flooded in
to persevere here
you gotta take these out like that's all
right I forgot your Satan okay
sorry we got our spirit heart back so
I'm not using a charge there every item
room represents hope hope in the item
rooms hope in the shops even a hope and
it deals with the devil that's just the
worst Barack Obama impression the
cadence is sort of there the words may
be good work okay
those enemies are part of the language
those enemies are my bees you know what
I mean any enemy that doesn't move very
much or moves very very predictably and
has no HP is like my ideal foe at this
point these guys are like the exact
opposite at low HP though low HP I'm at
the point where like if I get a bomb on
a room I'm like thank God somebody up
there likes me a bomb I can use that to
kill one enemy instead of having to
rotate into him like a frickin
aggressive fidget spinner or something
here where is the item room where is the
shop I ask you this
100% deal with the devil chance don't
get excited as Krampus or sister Maggie
those are the only options plausible
let's give them a second you know how
they work they're very slow
okay we managed to kill one thank you
sister vis how did you come to be the
gimme boss fight little Stephen copies
fucking pop you can't take it
you can't take it we don't have any
other Gumpy items right we got we're 20
minutes in 25 minutes in and we have
like ten items we can see if we got a
guppy I don't have any guppy items you
can't take G believe maybe we could have
read instance the devil deal by using
glowing hourglass but I doubt I mean
it's seated right so we I don't know
what we would have been helping for
there where is our item room and our
devil not a devil dealer's shop where's
our item room in our shop man it's
getting out of control here
they must be next to one another like
that's plausible this run is so
underpowered right now that I'm excited
we got little Stephen I'm like oh my god
our damage just got like 25% better you
can tell the writing's on the wall and
the tide is turned
that's no no no no see now we got
regular hourglass but I refuse to give
up our last sphere at heart like that I
didn't take glowing hourglass over
Guppies paw because I'm you know happy
with glowing hourglass it's more because
Guppies pot cost us our only red heart
upgrade he's done it sweet merciful
Christ they gave me mom's knife in the
item room of all the and I'm not
complaining
I'm the happiest boy in the world right
now but of all the lame ways to give you
a win after you struggle you're going to
give me mom's knife it's like a Pyrrhic
victory
let's donate you know just pay it
forward want to save maybe 20 cents oh
we're still not guaranteed the win but
we're in a very very very good spot now
even though our stats are still garbage
we'll save fifteen so that's like the
first time I've been able to relax in
like 20 minutes this run is actually
garbage the moms night pick up changes
everything notes you know previously
I've moved it around on my Power
Rankings internally over here at
northernlion enterprises keep like a big
stock ticker of how we feel about every
item I'm still not taking Guppies paw
I'm not I want to spend on it right now
mom's knife honestly it might be back in
the number one spot like the number one
Ludacris song from the Austin Powers in
Goldmember soundtrack might not be from
Austin Powers in Goldmember but it did
have an Austin Powers themed music video
either way it just even with poor stats
in almost every category it can take
over this run and make it almost a joke
for us now actually all we need at this
point is something that is awesome as a
space bar item and I would say
offensively or defensively just so that
we can actually use the nipple clamps
here whatever this item is called jumper
cables that's right the only time I've
seen jumper cables because I'm not a
handyman well that's not true I have
jumps a couple cars before in my life
because I'm also a nice guy but it's
always movies and video games as a
torture device you got to think jumper
cables are probably one of those 5050
items right 50% of the time they're used
as a torture and or pleasure device I
don't know if the jumper cables are ever
pleasurable I wouldn't know I don't you
know I don't mess around with that sort
of stuff sometimes I like to kiss my
wife on the lips that's about as dirty
as I get I know weird she's a girl
come out come out where it actually
never do that because I hate ghosts dull
razor
we have fannypack fannypack plus dull
razor is the lamest but also like
literally does work kind of combination
we could conceivably have it will give
us consumables stop with the shooting
so I'd say at this point oh it's all
survival dude and honestly if we win
this run thank you with all of my
freaking heart to do that cube of meat
without this human meat if they'd given
us like you know an arranged upgrade
instead of Cuba meat we would've been
screwed instead they gave us Cuba meat
and Cuba meat allowed us to succeed
while also simultaneously probably
causing us to take more damage than we
should have but you know what you know
you got to take the good with the bad
in fact it's so lame to have fanny pack
dull razor it actually does not even
work with a hundred percent certainty so
I'm definitely you know feeling like I
wouldn't mind picking up something that
gives us a bonus if we get hit I'll live
with it the halo all stats up Oh God
it's our first tears damage speed
upgrade we've had range admittedly don't
let me say this run hasn't given us
anything it's given us a range upgrade
and mom's knife but I'm I thought it was
clear that I'm leaving mom's knife out
of this but I didn't state that so I can
understand why you would be confused
yeah that was pretty dumb of me
take the polaroid fight Krampus I don't
care get dusted young head of Krampus
look I love dull razor I think it's
pretty clear this is not the right run
for it and this is a once every six
rooms item so assuming get a full charge
after killing 15 enemies like that's
actually very very good it couldn't make
this into a fairly high quality item oh
it doesn't give us a full charge it
gives us one extra charge like one extra
increment of having charged still can
make up for things pretty quickly I
don't think we want tapeworm it's a cool
item I'm looking forward to
experimenting a little bit more with the
with the jumper cables whenever we get
the opportunity to that's not worth it
so we're not going to make the hush
fight in a way that's actually like very
nice I don't have to think about the
hush fight just focus on grabbing the W
here oh he just made the biggest mistake
of your life buddy okay I just made the
biggest mistake of my life buddy it's
not an Excel floor is it in fact a very
fast non Excel floor so oh he's done it
he has not done it he's done it he's not
done it that one you have to at the head
even though the tail is the weak point
every other time you do this but we got
a third deal with the devil in a row
this time it's got actually good stuff
Wow yes yes we have a statistically half
decent run now don't take the HP forget
the judgment just go we don't want more
HP from the judgment is the thing it's
not like we're doing anything with our
money but
in fact I just talked myself into
playing that judgment but sadly were a
floor away so don't get your hopes up
too high
anyway this is now it's become like the
most boring archetype for a winning run
it's a moms knife Krampus head run an
item that makes all other items on your
run relatively trivial plus a powerful
space bar item that shows up almost
every single time well you know what
it's a great reminder too boring ain't
necessarily bad because we were having a
very exciting run for the first few
floors that would have almost certainly
ended in our debt if it was continuing
along the same trajectory just like if
you continue your life of listening to
rock and roll music eventually you too
will face the specter of the chosen
demon to call you when the poke I don't
know what I'm talking about
you know rock and roll music used to be
demonized of all the things all the
things to be demonized rock and roll
music seems like the strangest one
doesn't it have you ever heard a kiss
song I'm not anti kiss at all I think
kisses fun band it mostly singing songs
about no Connie Lingus but I don't think
that we definitely do not want IV bag
that's not an I don't think situation
that's a guaranteed situation you're
worried I mean I'm just stealing from
the plot of Detroit Rock City at this
point where the kiss is gonna make your
kids go to hell are you an idiot
gene Simmons is just a dirty old man
he's not Satan you ever seen him outside
of his makeup he looks like he runs a
mattress store
you're worried that's you know the devil
chose this as his disciple to corrupt
the nation's youth I mean I'm like 30
years too late to be making this a bit
but you get the idea
we just can't not get deals with the
devil anymore
we also missed the hush fight by 59
seconds which is comical given you know
where this runs started so use a sun
card because at this point honestly it's
not that I want to finish the run
quickly - like I've got important you
know receipts to file or something like
that no it's more like set a second
Steam sale not that it matters at this
point but it's more like I want to make
this run pay the way it made me pay at
the start of this the Emperor dude
because I like you
I'm not going to use the Emperor on the
chest but know that I want to we're not
why I instituted a policy like a year
ago people were complaining and they
were very right I was keeping Emperor
cards from the Cathedral and using them
to skip the chest because the chest is
harder than the Cathedral but what why
that's a bad idea is because the chest
is more fun because it actually gives
you items whereas the Cathedral doesn't
give you anything most of the time on
this run I have negative 0.82 luck it's
very unlikely please don't ruin my run
follow so angry fly maggie's bow it kind
of ruins it a little but it's not too
bad all things considered a speed
downgrade that's not too horrible either
so what oh that was close
we're very unlikely to get too many
extra items here for our performance on
this floor but we could still get some
and the chest has more engaging rooms I
think than the Cathedral so sure
I don't think it says it's a wrong
course of action so I don't know the
Krampus is head doesn't really seem like
it synergizes amazingly well with the
jumper cables maybe something more along
the lines of us something that takes a
long time to charge up and is also
awesome so if you're low on defense
Satanic Bible Book of Revelations but
what about like you know what about like
a delirium or something maybe that's got
the the keys to the kingdom the one that
spawns a random boss bad damage the one
that spawns a random boss whenever you
pop it I was going to say when you go to
a boss fight but that's just the most
practical way to use it it's not the
guaranteed way to use it like I guess in
theory if you fought an enemy assuming
it works this way if you fought an enemy
that spawned other enemies that you
could keep it under control like a Dooku
flies for example you could get
unlimited spirit hearts just by fighting
a dukkha flies kill all the Flies you
got to kill like freaking 90 to get to
the point where you get a this is the
one I should have killed first you got
to kill like 90 to get to the point
where you'd get a an extra full charge
but hey you know you killed 900 enemies
and all of a sudden you got full spirit
hearts buddy nothing to worry about
just 900 flies how long could that take
all right dude
taste this cold steel and meats roast
beef sashimi
that's how I killed half the enemies in
this run that's how I got you to Buster
thanks for watching hope you guys
enjoyed the episode if you didn't click
the like button I was at a great deal we
got wins in the tank for now thanks for
watching of course I hope you enjoyed
the episode and I'll see you next time